# Mobile Phone Price Classification
Analyze features of mobile phones to classify them into different price ranges using machine learning models
## 🏷️Overview
In today’s rapidly evolving smartphone market, it is progressively getting more difficult to decide on what phones for consumers to buy. With all these new budget smartphones offering features that were once considered premium and all these huge flagship companies offering the same features for a way higher price, it is really hard to navigate exactly what you are paying for.  Accounting for the wide range of specifications in these phones,  finding the real features that drive the final price listing of phones will help buyers make informed decisions. Consumers can personally assess whether a phone’s price aligns with its capabilities, and help them avoid paying a ton of money for unnecessary features. It has been found that “some manufactures inflate prices based on brand reputation rather than hardware performance” . And finding the Machine learning classification models that accurately classify phones into their appropriate price will also help manufacturers optimize their product listings. The point of these models are not for predicting the exact price but to discern the crucial features that influence a phone's price and sort into phones the appropriate price range. I will employ three popular machine learning algorithms ; K-Nearest Neighbors(KNN), Naive Bayes, and Decision Tree to build classification models. These models analyze key features like camera specs, battery capacity, screen, internal hardware, internal storage to sort different phones. And by comparing the performance of these algorithms, we can determine the most effective approach for price classification in the Mobile phone industry. 

## 📚Dataset
**Dataset:** This dataset is from Kaggle, and it has 2000 different phones with a collection of features that makes them distinct and the following chat contains all of the different things that we are gonna be looking into when fitting a classification model; 

